Steps We Will Do
Load and clean dataset (fix datatypes, handle nulls/duplicates).
Perform data wrangling to make dataset analysis-ready.
Generate descriptive statistics and define KPIs.
Create visualizations (histograms, bar charts, boxplots, KDE, pie, scatter, etc.).
Analyze trends and interpret insights.
Conclude findings and suggest solutions to business objectives.


KPIs
• Customer Demographics - Average Age, Distribution of Occupation, No. Of Customers by Income Group
• Financial Behavior – Average Annual Income, Average Monthly In-Hand Salary, Average Debt-to-Income Ratio, Average Credit Utilization Ratio, Average No. Of Bank Accounts, Average No. Of Credit Cards.
• Loan & Credit Performance – Avg No. Of Loans Per Customer, Avg Interest Rate, Total EMI as % Of Income (EMI Burden Ratio), Avg Credit History Age.
• Risk & Fraud Indicators – Avg No. Of Delayed Payments, Delay from Due date (avg, min, max), % of Customers with Frequent Credit Inquiries, % of Customers with Changed Credit Limit, Distribution of Credit Score Categories (Good/Standard/Poor)
• Behavioral Insights – Distribution of Payment Behavior, % of Customers who Pay Minimum Amount Only.

• Demographic Analysis –
Bar Chart – Customers by Occupation.
Histogram – Age Distribution.
Boxplot – Annual Income by Occupation.
• Income & Salary Insights –
Histogram – Annual Income Distribution.
Boxplot – Monthly In-hand Salary vs Credit Score.
KDE Plot – Income Distribution (Good vs Poor).
• Credit & Loan Analysis –
Bar Chart – Avg Number of Loans vs Credit Score.
Stacked Bar Chart – Types of Loans Availed by Customers.
Scatter Plot – Outstanding Debt vs Annual Income (colored by Credit Score).


• Risk & Fraud Indicators -
Boxplot – Delayed Payments vs Credit Score.
Histogram – Delay from Due Date Distribution.
Bar Chart – Credit Utilization Ratio vs Credit Score.
Heatmap – Correlation between numerical features (i.e - Income, Debt, EMI).
• Behavioral Patterns -
Pie Chart – Payment Behavior Distribution.
Bar Chart – Payment of Min Amount (Yes/No) vs Credit Score.
Stacked Bar – Payment Behavior vs Occupation.
• Overall Credit Score Analysis -
Pie Chart – % of Customers in Good, Standard, Poor Categories.
Bar Chart – Avg Debt, EMI, Utilization across Credit Score Categories.
